# Rafael Sargsyan
## Sudoku Generator

Sudoku Generator is a C++ program that generates Sudoku puzzles of varying difficulty levels, from easy to very hard (1-5). With its user-friendly interface, you can easily select the level of difficulty you want and get a unique Sudoku puzzle every time. In addition to generating Sudoku puzzles, this program also provides solutions to the generated puzzles.

## Installation and Usage

1. Clone the repository
2. Move to the directory where the repository is cloned
3. Run the following commands in the terminal:

       cmake .         // to generate the Makefile
       make            // to build the program
       ./generator     // to run the program

4. Follow the instructions on the screen to generate a Sudoku puzzle of the desired difficulty level.

In case commands `cmake` and `make` are not installed on your system, you can install them using the following commands:

    brew install cmake              // to install cmake on Mac
    sudo apt-get install cmake      // to install cmake on Ubuntu
    sudo dnf install cmake          // to install cmake on Fedora
    https://cmake.org/download/     // to download cmake on Windows follow the link
    
    sudo apt-get install make      // to install make on Ubuntu
    sudo dnf install make           // to install make on Fedora
    brew install make               // to install make on Mac



## Project Description

Sudoku Generator is implemented using a backtracking solver that ensures 100% accuracy of the generated puzzles. The solver has been extensively tested on a dataset of 150 thousand Sudoku puzzles, and it provided solutions in approximately 75-80 seconds. This means that you can generate and solve Sudoku puzzles quickly and with complete accuracy.

In addition to the solver, the program uses the Las Vegas algorithm to generate different solved boards, which are then transformed into puzzles of varying difficulty levels. This ensures that every Sudoku puzzle generated by the program is unique and has a single solution.

Additionally, the program uses the Dig Hole strategy to generate Sudoku puzzles of difficulty levels ranging from 1-5. The user can easily select the desired level of difficulty from the user-friendly interface and get a unique Sudoku puzzle every time, along with its solution. 

The sequence of digging holes determines the order in which cells are explored during the process of creating a Sudoku puzzle. The program uses the following sequence of digging holes to generate Sudoku puzzles of varying difficulty levels:

1. Left to right and top to bottom
2. Wandering along an "S" pattern
3. Jumping one cell at a time
4. Global randomization

To test the uniqueness of solutions generated by our Sudoku Generator, we employ a simple but effective technique. Before removing any number from the generated puzzle, we replace it with every other number from 1 to 9, one at a time. After each substitution, we solve the modified puzzle using our backtracking algorithm. If a solution is found, we conclude that the puzzle is not unique and move on to the next number. If no solution is found, we conclude that the puzzle is unique and remove the number from the puzzle. This process is repeated until the desired level of difficulty is reached.
